---
layout: page
title: Clients
permalink: /documentation/config/clients
parent: Configuration
grand_parent: Documentation
---

# Clients

Clients can be defined in a configuration file or in a [database](/documentation/sql/ "SQL"). A configuration file
could be generated manually or generated by a script accessing your configuration database. It has to be referred
in [general settings file](/documentation/config/general "General") with:

```ini
store_file_config = /path/to/dhcpy6d/clients.conf
```

Clients can have these attributes:

- **class** (required)
- **hostname**
- **mac** – more than one have to be separated by spaces
- **duid** – more than one have to be separated by spaces
- **address** – more than one have to be separated by spaces
- **prefix** – defines a static prefix for a client
- **id** (0-FFFF) – will be used for one octet of IPv6 address
- **prefix_route_link_local** - allows to use link-local address as route to provides prefixes

It is mandatory that a client has at least the corresponding attributes the general identification relies on, e.g. 
if MACs are used for identification all clients should have one in configuration, otherwise they won’t be recognized.

The option **id** can be used for address definitions of **category id** and will be replaced in the corresponding
**$id$** snippet.

The option **address** allows to add additional fixed addresses
beyond class defined addresses. Several addresses have to 
be separated by spaces.

A given fixed **prefix** option defines the prefix the client always should get.

If multiple addresses are configured for a client and it requests prefixes too, it might be helpful to configure
**prefix_route_link_local** as true. This way the *call_up* command will be called with the link-local address
of the client to make the route clear.

A client configuration file should look like this:

```ini
[client1]
hostname = client1
mac = 01:01:01:01:01:01
class = valid_client

[client2]
hostname = client2
mac = 02:02:02:02:02:02
class = invalid_client

[client3]
hostname = client3
duid = 000100011234567890abcdef1234
class = valid_client
address = 2001:cb8::babe:1

[client4]
hostname = client4
mac = 04:04:04:04:04:04
id = 4
class = valid_client
prefix = 2001:db8::/56 

[client5]
hostname = client5
mac = 05:05:05:05:05:05
id = 5
class = valid_client
prefix = 2001:db8:5::/64
prefix_route_link_local = true
```

Every client not listed here will be of class _default_ and get its default address(es) as defined for default addresses and class in [general configuration file](/documentation/config/general "Configuration").